# 6.006.01: Algorithms & Computation

[Course Link](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/6-006-introduction-to-algorithms-spring-2020/) | [Lecture Link](https://youtu.be/ZA-tUyM_y7s)

## What is this course about?

Solve computational problems
Prove correctness
Argue efficiency (better than other solutions)
Communicate these ideas to other people (may be doing a lot of writing)

## Defining terms

### Problem
Inputs => Outputs. A relation between inputs and outputs.

We want to talk about large problems.

For solutions, we want an alogrithm that:
 - applies to different situations / inputs (generalized)
 - scales for larger inputs

*Aside: consider also taking Mathematics for CS. It is a prerec for 6.006*

### Alogorithm 
A fixed procedure that solves the problem with the correct output for the specified input.

### Correctness
Through inductive reasoning

**Inductive reasoning**: Proving the algorithm sovles the problem with a small set of inputs, therefore proving that it solves the problem with a larger set of ouputs.

Can you communicate in a way that can be written as code?

*Aside: this inductive reasoning / proofs discussion is apparently discussed in Mathematics for CS.*

### Efficiency
How fast does this algorithm run? How fast does this algorithm compare to other possible algorithms?

Instead of measuring time, count operations.
We expect performance to depend on the size of the input. We use `n` to represent the number of inputs.

Types of Asymptotic Notion: 
 - Big O (upper bounds)
 - Omega (lower bounds)
 - Theta (both bounds)

Common functions to express efficiency:
 - Constant Time, epressed as `O(1)`
 - Logarithmic Time, expressed as `O(lg n)`
 - Linear Time, expressed at `O(n)`
 - Log Linear Time, expressed as `O(n lg n)`
 - Quadradic Time, expressed as `O(n^2)`
 - Polynomial Time, expressed as `O(n^c)`

[Visualization that Prof. Ku drew](https://media.geeksforgeeks.org/wp-content/cdn-uploads/mypic.png)

#### Model of Computation

Word RAM

Explaination of RAM and CPU

Operations on the CPU:
 - Integer arithmatic
 - Logical operations
 - Bitwise operations